Doc 780 (#859)
amplitude/amplitude-docs: content/collections/experiment/en/experiment-quick-start.md

---
id: 1dc8fb12-66f4-4ff0-bf73-e2e52fcd78b1
blueprint: experiment
title: 'Experiment Quick Start'
this_article_will_help_you:
  - 'Setup the SDK and deployment for your experiments'
  - 'Create feature flags, variants, and payloads'
  - 'Design and implement the experiment'
landing: false
exclude_from_sitemap: false
updated_by: 3f7c2286-b7da-4443-a04f-7c225af40254
updated_at: 1753137993
---
Amplitude Experiment is a workflow-driven behavioral experimentation platform that accelerates the process of creating different variants of features and websites for experimentation.

> With Experiment, you can modify and configure product experiences for unique audiences through:

Reviewer: Probably something we should align on, but for product names, when do we want to include "Amplitude," and when should we not?

* **Product experimentation**: running experiments and A/B tests to onboard new users, reduce friction for checkout experiences, roll out new features, and more.
* **Progressive feature delivery:** Pre-plan and stage new features for beta testers, a percentage of your users, or even specific target audiences.
* **Dynamic in-product experiences:** Deploy and adapt custom experiences at scale.

> Amplitude Experiment enables experimentation through feature flags. Feature flags are switches that let you modify your product's experience without having to change code. Experiment and feature flags use the [Amplitude Experiment SDK](/docs/sdks/experiment-sdks) or [REST API](/docs/apis/experiment) to communicate with Amplitude Experiment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Amplitude Experiment enables experimentation through feature flags. Feature flags are switches that let you modify your product's experience without having to change code. Experiments and feature flags use the [Amplitude Experiment SDK](/docs/sdks/experiment-sdks) or [REST API](/docs/apis/experiment) to communicate with Amplitude Experiment.
```

Setting up an experiment is a multi-stage process encompassing the following procedures:
1. Installing and setting up SDKs and deployments
2. Creating feature flags
3. Selecting the deployment and creating a payload
4. Creating variations and sending payloads
5. Designing experiments

{{partial:admonition type="warning" heading=""}}
This quick start guide contains only the basic information needed to implement Experiment. Review the entire set of [Experiment documentation](docs/feature-experiment) to understand the full complexity and features of the product.
{{/partial:admonition}}

## Prerequisites

> Before you can begin using experiments, you must first:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before you can begin using experiments:
```

Saying "before you begin" and "you must first" feels duplicative.

- Have access to the [Experiment SDK](/docs/sdks/experiment-sdks).

> - Make sure you have access to the Experiment feature. 

Reviewer: Might be good to explain a bit more what "access" means in this case.

- Ensure you have developer access to the application where you'll integrate your feature flags.

## Setting up the SDK

Install the Amplitude SDK with the Experiment client. For example, through javascript:

```bash

npm install @amplitude/analytics-browser @amplitude/experiment-browser

import * as amplitude from '@amplitude/analytics-browser'; 
import { Experiment } from '@amplitude/experiment-browser'; 
amplitude.init('AMPLITUDE_API_KEY');  
const experiment = Experiment.initialize('EXPERIMENT_API_KEY'); 
await experiment.start();
```

## Setting up a deployment

> Experiment uses the same projects as Amplitude Analytics. As a best practice, create one project for each product and each environment. Because [flags](#flags-and-experiments), [experiments](#flags-and-experiments), and [deployments](#deployments) only exist within a single project, you must duplicate these objects across projects within the same product.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Experiment uses the same projects as Amplitude Analytics. As a best practice, create one project for each product and each environment. [Flags](#flags-and-experiments), [experiments](#flags-and-experiments), and [deployments](#deployments) are part of the same project.
```

This paragraph is pretty confusing, and not sure if it's necessary. What is the "product" mentioned here?

> In Amplitude Experiment, a deployment serves a group of flags or experiments for use in an application. Each [project](#projects) has a deployment using the project API key as the deployment key, available by default. On creation, experiment deployments are assigned a randomly generated deployment key which Experiment uses to identify the deployment and authorize requests to the evaluation servers.

Reviewer: I think this paragraph might be wrong.

Projects don't have deployments by default. You need to create the deployment and assign it to a project.

{{partial:admonition type="note" heading="Client vs. server deployments"}}
Deployments are either client or server deployments. Use client-side deployments to initialize client-side SDKs and server-side deployments to initialize server-side SDKs or authorize requests to the Evaluation API.
{{/partial:admonition}}

> Deployments belong to Amplitude Analytics projects, and a project can have multiple deployments. Amplitude recommends that you name deployments after the platform (client-side) or service (server-side) to which Experiment serves variants (for example: `android`, `ios`, `web`). The default project API key deployment is useful for getting started, but use explicit deployments for each platform or service for larger organizations or teams that may share the same Amplitude project across multiple platforms for the same application. Each deployment receives a unique key for use in your application.

Reviewer: This also talks about default deployments, which I don't see in the app.

> ##### To create a deploymnet

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### To create a deployment
```

4. Specify the [evaluation mode](/docs/feature-experiment/local-evaluation) for your experiment. Select either **Remote** or **Local**. 
5. Specify the **bucketing unit** you want to use for this experiment.  
  
    {{partial:admonition type='tip'}}
    The best bucketing unit is typically the user. However, in some B2B use cases, you might want to use company ID or city as the bucketing unit. For example, bucketing by company ID ensures that all users in a particular company have the same user experience. Be sure the [Stable Unit Treatment Value Assumption](https://blogs.iq.harvard.edu/violations_of_s#:~:text=Methods%20for%20causal%20inference%2C%20in,treatments%20of%20others%20around%20him) holds for whichever unit you choose.
    {{/partial:admonition}}
6. Click **Create**. 
Experiment opens a blank template for your flag.
7. Choose the deployment you want from the Deployment dropdown menu. 
8. (_Optional_) Click **Advanced Settings** to modify the [bucketing salt](/docs/feature-experiment/implementation#consistent-bucketing) options. 
{{partial:admonition type="note" heading=""}}

> If you change the bucketing, users may be able to switch between variants in your experiment. For that reason, Amplitude recommends not to change the bucketing unless you know what you're doing. For more information, see [How randomization works in Amplitude Experiment](/docs/feature-experiment/under-the-hood/experiment-randomization).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you change the bucketing, users may be able to switch between variants in your experiment. For that reason, Amplitude recommends not to change the bucketing unless you know what you're doing. For more information, review [How randomization works in Amplitude Experiment](/docs/feature-experiment/under-the-hood/experiment-randomization).
```
